1) What do you mean by a Data structure? 
A: Data Structure is the way of oganizing the data and which in turn makes the accessing the data simple and effective.

2)What are some of the applications of DS?
A: Expression Handling,Backtracking Procedure,Function Calls(Recursion),Efficient insering and deleting,routing techniques etc

3) What are the advantages of a Linked list over an array?
A: The advantages are :
   1. Deletion
   2. Insertion
   3. Resizing

4) Write the syntax in C to create a node in the singly linked list?
A: structure node
  {
    int data;
    structure node* next;
  };
 int main()
 {
     struct node st;
     st.data=3;
     st->next=NULL;
 }

5) What is the use of a doubly-linked list when compared to that of a singly
linked list?
A: Traversing in both the directions, insertion and deletion becomes more efficient

6) What is the difference between an Array and Stack?
A : An array is accessed using index based method while only a top element can be accessed in stack. Stack is LIFO datastructure. 
    Insertion and deletion operation are performed on array while pop and push operations are performed on stack.

7) What are the minimum number of Queues needed to implement the priority
queue?
A : Two. one is used for actual storage and the other is used for storing priorities.

8) What are the different types of traversal techniques in a tree?
A : 1.Preorder traversal
    2.Inorder traversal
    3.Postorder traversal

9) Why it is said that searching a node in a binary search tree is efficient than that of
a simple binary tree?
A: In binary search tree, for a given node, all the elements of left subtree are less than the node and all the elements of the right subtree are more than the node.
   While in normal binary tree there is no such organization,the elements are added to the tree randomly. Hence due to a good organising technique in BST searching
   in BST is efficient.

10) What are the applications of Graph DS?
A: Maps,Shortest paths, routing techniques.

11) Can we apply Binary search algorithm to a sorted Linked list?
A: No because in binary search we need to access the middle element directly and go to left or right of the middle element according to the specified condition.In linked list we 
   cannot access the middle element directly and also we cannot go backwards.

12) When can you tell that a Memory Leak will occur?
A: Memory leak occurs when programmers create a memory in heap and forget to delete it.

13) How will you check if a given Binary Tree is a Binary Search Tree or not?
A: Recursively traverse to each and every node and check whether the node is BST or not by comparing with the node data and left data and right data

14) Which data structure is ideal to perform recursion operation and why?
A:  The ideal data structure for recursion is stack because recursion follows LIFO process that is the function that was called the last returns first.
    As stack follows the LIFO structure stack data structure is ideal.

15) What are some of the most important applications of a Stack?
A:  Recursion,Expression evaluation,backtracking,memory management

16) Convert the below given expression to its equivalent Prefix And Postfix notations.
A:  incomplete question

25) How to find the shortest path between two vertices 
A: Using Djkshatra's algorithm


